Karasuno                   Waku South
Sorry.
I'm gonna go to the bathroom,
so go on ahead without me.
He's really pumped about going to the bathroom.
He must need to shit.
Say "poop"! You're so vulgar, Kageyama!
Shit.
I don't think he's actually going to the bathroom.
Poop.
Shit.
Poop!
Mr. Ukai.
I'm sorry for wasting my chance.
"What determines whether you can win or not is how aggressive you can be when serving."
Hearing you point that out after the Fukurodani match
and really thinking about it made me understand my role.
And then I thought I wanted to be able to play too.
But when push came to shove, I ran away.
Please.
Give me one more chance!
Stop bugging me.
I already know.
Please put me in there!
Leap and fly! High!
Flecked with blood, sweat, and tears
Those glistening wings can let you leave it all behind
So just fly
H
a
i
S
e
k
y
c
u
o
n
u
d
!
S
e
!
a
s
o
n
Fly high
Haikyuu
Second Season
!!
Haikyuu
Second Season
!!
Haikyuu
Second Season
!!
Into the distant future
H
a
i
k
y
u
H
a
i
k
y
u
S
e
c
o
n
d
S
e
a
s
o
n
S
e
c
o
n
d
S
e
a
s
o
n
!
The bruise-covered fledgling glares up at the sky
As the ones who've just found their wings laugh derisively
They just want to see the ends of the ocean
Empty your mind
Let the headwinds guide your approach
And with a hop, step, and a jump
Leap and fly! High!
Let your wings, glistening with blood, sweat, and tears
Take you to wherever you need to go
Unleash your unrefined impulses
Uncover your instincts and bare your uncut fangs
It may take an arduous path
But be torn down it endlessly to achieve your dream
So just fly
Fly high
Into the distant future
Go land another one, Kyoutani!
Sorry!
It went long!
Mattsun!
Episode Twenty-two:
The Fight of the Previously Spineless
All right!
Damn it. Sorry!
Aoba Jousai                 Karasuno
This isn't good.
Seijou's number sixteen is finding his groove.
They're up by five...
Don't give up!
Let's move back a bit.
I don't think he'll hit one up front.
Yeah.
Right.
Give us a good serve!
Bring it, bring it, bring it!
Tanaka!
Yeah!
This is just the beginning!
Aoba Jousai                 Karasuno
Give us a good one, Shouyou!
Hey! That guy...
Pardon me. We're making a substitution.
Hey, it's the scaredy-cat pinch server.
Oh, it's the guy who played in the Waku South match too.
Though I totally understand why he's a scaredy-cat.
I'd hate having to serve when the match is on the line.
That's the guy who was all stiff
from nerves and screwed up, right?
Think he'll be okay?
Yeah...
Yamaguchi, go score ten points!
That'd end the match...
It's fine.
G-Give it to 'em good, Yamaguchi!
Y-You gotta keep... keep your cool!
Give us a good serve!
Give us a good serve.
Give it your all!
Right!
Three, two, one...
Give us a good serve, Yamaguchi!
Eight seconds.
You know there's that much time after
the whistle blows for you to serve, right?
Yes.
Almost every time, you get surprised by the whistle and immediately toss the ball up to serve.
You don't need to panic.
Right.
And, well, you know...
You went to talk to Ukai, right?
Yes.
You chose to do that.
So now you're already a completely different player.
Go out there and do what you want to do.
Look at them getting all serious now.
Let it go!
All right!
All...
...right!
He did it.
Tadashi!
Nice serve!
It stayed in!
We're...
...supposed to be...
...cheering for Aoba Jousai.
Wait, what? Isn't that a bit of an overreaction?
Nice serve, Yamaguchi!
They only scored one point.
Just like that! Do it again!
Can you believe this guy? A service ace!
Catch up in one fell swoop!
I'm sorry.
It's fine. Don't worry about it.
The ball's path changed like crazy.
Even I thought it was going out.
This is why I hate jump float serves.
That was awesome, Yamaguchi!
Y-Yeah.
It's not that surprising.
There you go agai—
In the past five months,
he practiced serving more than anyone else.
Why, you little...
Do it again, Yamaguchi!
Aoba Jousai                      Karasuno
Give it all you've got!
Give it all you've got, Yamaguchi!
He'll be fine.
You always feel worse after you run away.
I'm pretty sure Yamaguchi feels that way too.
A point to change the course of the match...
Yeah, and...
the start of our counterattack.
Let's stop them here!
Yeah.
In a sport where passing the ball between players is vital,
serving is the only thing done alone.
Yeah.
You could also say that it's the only way
a player can score a point by themselves.
In the evolution of volleyball, the serve has grown the most in terms of power and importance.
And in modern volleyball,
the serve is a powerful attack that
can't be stopped by a wall of blockers.
Kyoutani!
Damn it!
A-Another service ace!
Yes!
All right!
Yamaguchi!
Nice serve.
What the hell?!
Yamaguchi!
His serve is amazing!
Do it again!
Bring it!
Got it!
You receive jump floats...
with overhand digs!
Nice, Makki.
He got it!
They're going to attack now!
There's a certain fear when you change from hunter to hunted.
Iwaizumi!
He received it with his body?!
Not yet... Not yet!
I'm not giving up my turn to serve just yet!
Someone get it!
Thanks, Kageyama...
It's all yours, Tsukishima!
All right!
Tsukki...
A wipe!
He dealt with the block really well.
Tsukishima!
Aoba Jousai                            Karasuno
That's three points in a row!
Do it again.
Yeah!
Hey, Seijou's taking a timeout.
They're physically stopping the momentum.
All right!
Making Seijou take a timeout is amazing, Yamaguchi!
Yamaguchi!
Th-Thanks.
That number twelve sure has some guts with the way he received my spike.
It was just luck.
Wow.
It really hurts.
All right! Let's win this!
Keep it up!
I can't do what they do.
I want full control of my body!
I want to control the ball!
I want to play as equals against good players!
All right!
Yamaguchi!
Do it again!
Keep your eye on the ball!
Right!
Listen up, Tadashi.
Don't give them the chance to receive the ball.
Aim for right above the white belt of the net...
...and hit!
I only have one weapon I can fight with:
my serve.
I got the chance to serve just one time.
I'm going to fight by putting my pride and
the momentum of the match into that serve.
I am...
a pinch server.
It went over!
Is luck on our side now?
No, it's not just that.
Now...
Aoba Jousai                Karasuno
it's tied.
!!
Haikyuu
Second Season
H
a
S
e
i
c
k
y
o
n
u
d
S
e
!
a
s
o
n
Aoba Jousai                Karasuno
Now they're tied!
Karasuno caught up!
Yamaguchi!
He just barely hit it over the net in the Waku South match too, right?!
Tadashi's a lucky boy!
Yep!
Though it barely went over the net, there's not much similarity between what happened just now and earlier.
During the Waku South match, Tadashi was probably thinking about whether or not the ball would go over.
Do it again, Yamaguchi!
Give us a good serve, Yamaguchi!
But right now,
he's thinking about where to aim it.
That last serve was the result of going on the offensive.
How awesome, Tadashi!
That said, I'm not sure he's entirely aware of it.
Do it again, Yamaguchi!
For some reason, my serve toss isn't going very high.
Right!
Let's calm down, okay?
We are calm.
Not much we could do about that last one.
We'll get the next one.
You guys are so reliable that it makes me a little sad!
It's spinning slightly!
The ball's not changing direction!
Got it!
Nice receive!
I touched it!
Nice job!
Azumane!
Nice, Kageyama!
Three blockers!
And three very tall blockers at that.
In back!
It's going out!
All right!
Nice call, Tanaka!
Whoa, seriously?
Karasuno...
Aoba Jousai
Karasuno
is at match point!
Give us another good serve!
Yamaguchi...
is the hero of this match.
Just one more point...
Just one more point and we win!
Land it!
Please, land this serve!
Tadashi!
Yamaguchi! Just one more!
Land this serve!
That felt good.
I'll get it!
Damn, he's really good.
Nice, Watacchi!
Stop it!
Stop it, please!
All right!
Nice spike!
We finally ended their streak.
How many points did he score, anyway?
That was a marvelous performance!
Good job!
Thank you.
You did great, Yamaguchi!
All right!
Thanks!
That was awesome!
Focus on one point at a time!
Next time,
I'll score ten points.
You're on!
Give us a good serve, Hanamaki!
Yamaguchi gave us this opportunity.
Daichi!
We won't let it go to waste!
All right!
Nice, Azumane!
Here they are again!
Match point!
Go!
All right!
They took a point back so easily.
They managed to get a fast attack off even while cornered.
Not to mention, he just hit it straight forward.
If it were me, I'd totally be relying on the ace.
Yeah!
Aoba Jousai                Karasuno
Nice receive!
Watch for the dump!
All right!
Nice spike, Tsukishima!
Hey, you're stiff, Kindaichi.
Yes! No!
Which is it?
This is a critical moment for us.
We can't make this the third-years' last match.
Don't worry about anything else.
All you need to focus on is scoring one point at a time.
Right!
You can do this, Asahi!
Give us a good serve!
It went long! Sorry!
All right!
Nice spike!
Thanks!
Thanks for saving me!
Seijou sure is good.
This next point is huge, but...
And...
in modern volleyball,
the serve is a powerful attack...
that can't be stopped by a wall of blockers.
That was basically a spike.
All right!
Rule the Court
Do it again!
Seijou turned it around and is now at set point!
Aoba Jousai                           Karasuno
Will they go on and take this set?
Damn it all!
There's no way just the two of us can handle this.
Sorry, Asahi, but we need your help.
Sure.
Azumane's going to help receiving the serve too?
If that's what Sawamura and Nishinoya decided,
then it's probably a good idea.
Oikawa seems to focus more on power than control when he serves.
Rather than him getting a service ace,
it's better to get the ball up in the air any way they can.
They've had plenty of practice with
Ubugawa's and Fukurodani's serves.
It's fine.
They can handle this.
Bring it!
Give us a good one!
Daichi!
Yes!
Nice job, Tanaka!
Kageyama!
Asahi!
Nice receive!
All right!
Aoba Jousai                Karasuno
They took back a set!
I thought Karasuno was gonna take it in straight sets.
Man, we almost had them!
It's fine!
You're just getting started!
Damn!
That third set is gonna be rough!
Let's change gears!
Right!
His serve really is amazing.
You were awesome too, Yamaguchi.
He's much more experienced than I am.
That might be obvious because he's a third-year, but I think there's more to it than that.
More to it?
Jump serves are riskier but provide unparalleled power.
He was able to make his serve even more powerful yet not mess it up when they were cornered.
He's something special.
Yamaguchi!
Those were nice serves!
Th-Thanks!
But I've still got a ways to go.
Only half of my serves were any good.
Then be really happy about the half that were good!
Reflection and regret will happen on their own.
Right now, you need to take a firm grasp on this good feeling to make sure you don't forget it!
Really grab it!
And then repeat it next time.
Right!
In the end, we're playing all three sets.
It started with our first practice match.
Then the interhigh prelims.
And then now.
We're having our most intense match yet.
Difficult opponents...
Annoying opponents...
Until last year, we didn't have that much connecting us.
They were supposed to be beneath us.
We're destined to play all three sets against these guys.
Aoba Jousai                     Karasuno
The third set...
This is our final battle!
When I was just a nobody, something lit up my eyes
I was merely a guy languishing complacently in the dark, happy with what I had
Now I'm torn toward the heavens even on a starless night
Whether our time comes to us or not is a matter for those in another world
That's right, our lungs pumping and our hearts beating is all we have in this new realm
We've always been dancing on an unlit stage, but now beyond that
We're awaiting the rising of a sun that none have yet witnessed
Now that we're deliberating at a crossroads, paths blurring together
We can feel it
Inside this uncharted world which has yet to take on a name
As I'm waiting for the dawn to reach my eyes with a familiar light
I'm reminded of days I won't return to, and seeking proof of newfound existence
We brace ourselves
That was amazing, Yamaguchi!
Th-Thanks, Yachi.
Just in case, I had an AED, stretcher, and coffin prepared,
but they weren't necessary at all!
Huh?! Wasn't there something strange at the end of that list?!
Episode Twenty-three:
"Team"
Next time on Haikyuu!!:
"'Team.'"